Three-of-a-crime is a simple logic game for up to 3 players. There are 7 different criminals. The computer randomly chooses three of these (the "perpetrators"), but doesn't tell the players which are chosen. The computer then puts down three random criminals. 0, 1, or 2 of these may be the actual perpetrators. The computer also tells the player how many (but not which) of the three criminals are perpetrators. The players may either guess which three criminals are the actual perpetrators or they may pass. If a player guesses wrong, she is out of the game and the other players continue. If no player chooses to guess, the computer puts down another three randomly chosen criminals (0, 1, or 2 of which may be actual perpetrators) and tells the players how many (but not which) of these are actual perpetrators. Players can again use logic to deduce the three actual criminals and may guess. Play continues until some player guesses correctly or until all players have guessed incorrectly.
An example play:
1) Assume the criminals are called "a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", and "g". The computer chooses three of these randomly, say "b", "f" and "g". These criminals are the actual perpetrators. The computer does not reveal this to the players.
2) Now the computer chooses three criminals randomly and displays them to the players. Say "a", "d", and "f" are chosen and displayed. The computer also tells the players that 1 of these criminals is an actual perpetrator.
3) The players may guess who the actual three perpetrators are. Of course, at this point it's not possible to deduce who the actual perpetrators are, so no player should guess.
4) Since no player guessed, the computer again chooses three criminals randomly and reveals them to the players. Say "a", "b", and "f". The computer tells the players that two of these criminals are actual perpetrators, but does not reveal which ones are the real perpetrators.
5) Using logic, the players try to deduce who the actual three perpetrators are.